clients/dart/mediator_client/README.md, before:

# Affinidi TDK - Dart Mediator Client

## Requirements

- Dart SDK version >=2.18.0 <4.0.0

## Installation

Run:

```bash
dart pub add affinidi_tdk_mediator_client
```

or manually add the package to your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  affinidi_tdk_mediator_client: ^<version_number>
```

### Usage

After successfully installing the package, import it into your code.

```dart
import 'package:affinidi_tdk_mediator_client/mediator_client.dart';
import 'package:ssi/ssi.dart';
import 'package:uuid/uuid.dart';

void main() async {
  // Run commands below in your terminal to generate keys for Alice and Bob:
  // openssl ecparam -name prime256v1 -genkey -noout -out example/keys/alice_private_key.pem
  // openssl ecparam -name prime256v1 -genkey -noout -out example/keys/bob_private_key.pem

  // Create and run a DIDComm mediator, for instance https://github.com/affinidi/affinidi-tdk-rs/tree/main/crates/affinidi-messaging/affinidi-messaging-mediator or with https://portal.affinidi.com.
  // Copy its DID Document URL into example/mediator/mediator_did.txt.

  final config = await TestConfig.configureTestFiles(
    packageDirectoryName: 'mediator_client',
  );

  final aliceKeyStore = InMemoryKeyStore();
  final aliceWallet = PersistentWallet(aliceKeyStore);

  final bobKeyStore = InMemoryKeyStore();
  final bobWallet = PersistentWallet(bobKeyStore);

  final aliceDidManager = DidKeyManager(
    wallet: aliceWallet,
    store: InMemoryDidStore(),
  );

  final bobDidManager = DidKeyManager(
    wallet: bobWallet,
    store: InMemoryDidStore(),
  );

  final aliceKeyId = 'alice-key-1';
  final alicePrivateKeyBytes = await extractPrivateKeyBytes(
    config.alicePrivateKeyPath,
  );

  await aliceKeyStore.set(
    aliceKeyId,
    StoredKey(
      keyType: KeyType.p256,
      privateKeyBytes: alicePrivateKeyBytes,
    ),
  );

  await aliceDidManager.addVerificationMethod(aliceKeyId);
  final aliceDidDocument = await aliceDidManager.getDidDocument();

  prettyPrint(
    'Alice DID',
    object: aliceDidDocument.id,
  );
}
```

## Support & feedback

If you face any issues or have suggestions, please don't hesitate to contact us using [this link](https://share.hsforms.com/1i-4HKZRXSsmENzXtPdIG4g8oa2v).

### Reporting technical issues

If you have a technical issue with the package's codebase, you can also create an issue directly in GitHub.

1. Ensure the bug was not already reported by searching on GitHub under
   [Issues](https://github.com/affinidi/affinidi-tdk/issues).

2. If you're unable to find an open issue addressing the problem,
   [open a new one](https://github.com/affinidi/affinidi-tdk/issues/new).
   Be sure to include a **title and clear description**, as much relevant information as possible,
   and a **code sample** or an **executable test case** demonstrating the expected behaviour that is not occurring.

## Contributing

Want to contribute?

Head over to our [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/affinidi/affinidi-tdk/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines.

Commit message:

docs: add description for mediator client in readme

clients/dart/mediator_client/README.md, after:

# Affinidi TDK - Dart Mediator Client

Affinidi TDK dart client for Affinidi MEDIATOR package provides libraries and tools to create a mediator service that handles and routes signed and encrypted messages sent between participants (e.g., users, organisations, another mediator, or even AI agents).

## Requirements

- Dart SDK version >=2.18.0 <4.0.0

## Installation

Run:

```bash
dart pub add affinidi_tdk_mediator_client
```

or manually add the package to your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  affinidi_tdk_mediator_client: ^<version_number>
```

### Usage

After successfully installing the package, import it into your code.

```dart
import 'package:affinidi_tdk_mediator_client/mediator_client.dart';
import 'package:ssi/ssi.dart';
import 'package:uuid/uuid.dart';

void main() async {
  // Run commands below in your terminal to generate keys for Alice and Bob:
  // openssl ecparam -name prime256v1 -genkey -noout -out example/keys/alice_private_key.pem
  // openssl ecparam -name prime256v1 -genkey -noout -out example/keys/bob_private_key.pem

  // Create and run a DIDComm mediator, for instance https://github.com/affinidi/affinidi-tdk-rs/tree/main/crates/affinidi-messaging/affinidi-messaging-mediator or with https://portal.affinidi.com.
  // Copy its DID Document URL into example/mediator/mediator_did.txt.

  final config = await TestConfig.configureTestFiles(
    packageDirectoryName: 'mediator_client',
  );

  final aliceKeyStore = InMemoryKeyStore();
  final aliceWallet = PersistentWallet(aliceKeyStore);

  final bobKeyStore = InMemoryKeyStore();
  final bobWallet = PersistentWallet(bobKeyStore);

  final aliceDidManager = DidKeyManager(
    wallet: aliceWallet,
    store: InMemoryDidStore(),
  );

  final bobDidManager = DidKeyManager(
    wallet: bobWallet,
    store: InMemoryDidStore(),
  );

  final aliceKeyId = 'alice-key-1';
  final alicePrivateKeyBytes = await extractPrivateKeyBytes(
    config.alicePrivateKeyPath,
  );

  await aliceKeyStore.set(
    aliceKeyId,
    StoredKey(
      keyType: KeyType.p256,
      privateKeyBytes: alicePrivateKeyBytes,
    ),
  );

  await aliceDidManager.addVerificationMethod(aliceKeyId);
  final aliceDidDocument = await aliceDidManager.getDidDocument();

  prettyPrint(
    'Alice DID',
    object: aliceDidDocument.id,
  );
}
```

## Support & feedback

If you face any issues or have suggestions, please don't hesitate to contact us using [this link](https://share.hsforms.com/1i-4HKZRXSsmENzXtPdIG4g8oa2v).

### Reporting technical issues

If you have a technical issue with the package's codebase, you can also create an issue directly in GitHub.

1. Ensure the bug was not already reported by searching on GitHub under
   [Issues](https://github.com/affinidi/affinidi-tdk/issues).

2. If you're unable to find an open issue addressing the problem,
   [open a new one](https://github.com/affinidi/affinidi-tdk/issues/new).
   Be sure to include a **title and clear description**, as much relevant information as possible,
   and a **code sample** or an **executable test case** demonstrating the expected behaviour that is not occurring.

## Contributing

Want to contribute?

Head over to our [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/affinidi/affinidi-tdk/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines.
